---
layout: page
title: PC104
date: 2005-06-29 23:05:31
---
<p>PC104 is a PC form factor, and bus specification for small stackable, scalable modules with varying processor technology - normally x86 compatible.
</p>
<p>They allow more powerful computers to be used in robotic and engineering applications, and because of their form factor - upgrading, switching and using them is fairly simple.
</p>
<p>Their biggest down point is the cost. At around 3 times the price of an ATX board, the <a href="/wiki/microprocessor.html" title="Central Processing Unit">CPU</a> modules do not come cheap. Expect to see them drop dramatically in price over the coming years. Although the have the power of a general computing device, do not expect them to be as cheap, or easy to interface as a <a href="/wiki/pic.html" title="PIC">PIC</a> or <a a="" brain="" for="" href="/wiki/microcontroller.html" robot="" title="A programmable digital controller (or ">MicroController</a>.
</p>
<p>Their dimensions are 91.44 x 96.52mm, and stack at 15.24mm per module. They link together with spacers, and one J1 connector - an IDC style plug and socket arrangement. A Stack through module allows another layer to be placed above it, while a non-stackthrough terminates the block.
</p>
<p><a href="http://www.pc104.org" rel="external" target="_blank">http://www.pc104.org</a>
</p>
<p>PC104 Plus is an extension allowing high speed PCI throughput on the bus. These 32 bit modules are backwards compatible with 8 and 16 bit PC104 modules.
</p>
<p>When you are buying them -be aware of the difference between Compliant modules - which have the us and form factor, and Bus Compatible modules - which connect to the board - but DO not have the PC104 form factor.
</p>
<p>This has probably been kicked hard by recented embedded systems, like GumStix
</p>
