---
title: Orionrobots Club Frequently Asked Questions
date: 2004-08-11
description: Frequently Asked Questions
---
## OrionRobots Club

{% TOC %}

### What is the OrionRobots Club?

OrionRobots is a robot building club, where people can learn to build
robots, build robots in a supported environment with a pool of tools
and resources. It is about fun, teamwork and learning. It is a new
club- and currently consists of me(Orion Aka: Danny) and who attends
the meetings.

### Where is the OrionRobots Club

For now - our base of operations as a hobbyist robotic club is based in East Finchley, London, UK. Once we have a good idea of those interested - we are
planning on hiring either a workshop, garage or The Finchley Youth Centre on High Road.

## What time do the usual meetings occur?

Normal club meetings will be on Saturdays from 11am to about 1.15pm. we will have a 15 minute break at around 12noon.

Attendance of the full session is not compulsory, but you will get more out of it if you do.
I prefer people to confirm in advance that they will be coming - just so I can plan on numbers.
Other meetings, or major events will be announced on the website <https://orionrobots.co.uk/>

### Who Is Welcome?

Pretty much all our welcome as we aim to be inclusive.
Note however - for those under 16, we strictly require parents permission either verbally or in writing.
It is as important to us as to any parent that parents know where they're children are.

### How old do I need to be?

We would say between 5 and 150(unlikely).
There is a minimum, and it is really the parents discretion as to weather a child is old enough.
We would not allow any young children near dangerous machinery,
and will be guiding children to build and learn about robots at their level.

### Is it just for Boys?

Absolutely not.
We encourage girls to take part just as much as boys.
OrionRobots believes that any one can take part and see no reason to exclude any one unless they misbehave.

### Can parents join in?

Yes please- in fact I encourage it.
Parent helpers would be welcome, and older members welcome.
A diversity of people and skills will make the club a great deal more successful.
For older members - we will have other meetings to discuss the direction of OrionRobots and to allow club meeting planning (lesson planning but don't tell the kids that!).

### Can I tell my friends to come?

Yes.
At this point I would like a show of people to see how many are really interested in coming - so the more the merrier.

### Will there be subscription fees?

For the initial meetings no.
But after we have established a group, there will be a weekly sub of £1 or 2 to cover:

- equipment
- venue hire(we will be hiring a workshop when we can afford to)
- other club running costs.

I may change to a annual subscription/membership model when we have enough regular members.

### How do I contact OrionRobots?

To contact me - Danny, you can use #orionrobots on facebook, linkedin, discord or Youtube, and @orionrobots@fosstodon.org.
Please view the <a href="https://orionrobots.co.uk/contact">Contact</a> page.
I will make personal contact details available to parents of children who attend the club.

### Are there rules to follow?

Yes.
I am working on a set of rules at the moment.
The emphasis will be on safety followed by team work/co-operation.
One strict rule is that any person under the age of 16 will require parental consent - either verbal or written, to attend.

### What could my child or I learn with OrionRobots?

For a start, building robots!

They will also have an opportunity to learn and develop in many areas - depending upon there own interests and what events the group takes part in.
This will include:

- team work
- safety
- engineering - mechanical, software and electronic
- planning
- designing
- small amounts on history
- computer use and programming

OrionRobots has a key philosophy of Innovation, Education and Inspiration.

### What would I love readers to contact me about

I love people to reach out to me in public on social media about the following topics:

- Robots have you built
- Robot gadgets/dev boards you've designed and made
- Robot events you've been to
- Robot software/programming you've made
